I want to make a game called, Lazy RPG Adventure. This is going to be a dice heavy turn based RPG. The style is that there is no art its going to be a map and simple shapes with various colors to represent the map navigation. surrounding the map will be text and buttons only. it's going to target web. I would like you to start working with me to design this game out. 

Main Menu, has the following buttons (Start Game,  Load Game, Options, Exit).

Starting the game: Intro about the game funny comedy think bards tale humor talking about the main character in 3rd person, you name your character

I want the gameplay to start like this:

You make a character, simple name your character and choose a starting Combat Style, Melee, Ranged, Magic. the player will be able to choose their starting city, there will be a world map the world will be procedural generation seed based randomized. I want to have an inventory, and equipment screen. the game should work with controller support. I want combat to be turn based. combat will be initiated from exploring the map outside of a city. the map will generate the overworld, and cities and towns and dungeons and other scenes. I want the player to be able to fight through encounters. think dragon quest turn based let's build this together. I want to have the following stats:

Health
MeleeAttack
MeleeDefense
RangedAttack
RangedDefense
MagicAttack
MagicDefense
CriticalChance
Luck

All equipment will affect all of these stats.

I want equipment tiers every 10 levels is a new tier so at level 1 players can equip Puny (1 - tier) 



## 15. Open Design Decisions (Next Session)
1. Final level cap (50, 100, or infinite soft cap).
100 Final Level
 
2. Exact dice model (`d20` only vs mixed dice by weapon type).
Think Dungeons and Dragons, each weapon type rolls different dice, d4, d6, d8, d10, d12, d20 (for checks and rolls I want to use all of those nice
3. Encounter frequency formula by biome and level.
linear progression

4. Whether cities are handcrafted templates placed procedurally or fully generated.
There will be defined cities and mostly generated I want the game to feel uique each play through

5. How deep skills/magic trees should be in v1.
simple magic spells of different elements think runescape elemental spells


let's make the MVP following the game design and make the first prototype

Some Changes:
Main menu should be centered the buttons and text is not centered make sure it is also formatted for mobile
The buttons don't appear to work so I cannot get into the game, let's make sure that I can just open the html with my browser.

let's expand this game and add npcs, bosses and other things let's review and expand, what would be a fun factor I can add this is supposed to be a simple game, let's add difficulty, Story, Easy, Normal, Hard, Legendary. let's add a bunch of items to the game I want more items, potions and other items, I want to have a full loot system, encounters should be always scaled to your level since this is a single player experience. I want to make the battle scene a little cleaner and more appealing and I also want to add sound effects and a fantasy looping track. I want weapons to provide for the style, so melee and ranged and magic abilities and spells are unlocked and usable there is no ammo. also i want to add achievements and the combat scene I want a scrolling box for the encounter text so it does not push the buttons down. 


Next I need to make sure music and sound effects are in place. also the character creation the name should be empty initially and I want to add chests and more NPCs make sure all controller controls are displayed and be able to interact with the world and level transitions, there should be towns, dungeons, NPCs, shops and quests. I want to add a quest system that works with the procedural generated content. also I want to expand the skills melee, ranged, magic all have skills, for magic its the spells, and for ranged and melee its various skills that unlock. also equipment will have level requirements. I want to make the game feel more alive I want to generate storyline's dynamically

I want to fix the combat Log, it adds the log and expands outwards it should start at top and go down right now it feels a little off, and I want to now have you find or create assets for this game, simple assets since this is top down I am thinking the player can be a token based on the current combat style, so Sword, Bow or Staff. I want to add a fantasy looping track for music and sound effects for encounters, damage, losing, winning there should be a fanfare also music when victory


The Item, and Skills Selection should show all available skills or magic if magic is active, so for the magic I should see all my spells. also the adventure log should by default scroll down to bottom as entries are added. I want to have a level up message and stat increase selection and be able to add stats to the available stats. also the game should start with all stats being 10 health and 1 of all other stats except for critical chance which will be 5% by default. I like the tokens and all of the map details should be tokens, for cities, and npcs and bosses. also confirm before going back to main menu should prompt a confirm just in-case of accidental press.

when opening menus like the quest menu I should be able to scroll with the right thumb stick, this should be possible for all scrolling content when present. also I am not hearing any BGM I'm wanting a fantasy think final fantasy type of music having dedicated battle music, overworld music etc. I also want to be able to auto trigger events like quests and interactions when they do that. also I want to be able to feel like the game progresses dynamically. Also when entering the name it clears when any other changes happens. also weapons and armor when equipped changes the stats so for example a rusty broadsword gives + 1 Melee Attack,

I want the player to choose their weapon from the available types of weapons per their given combat style they choose. like Dagger, Short Sword, LongSword, 2H Sword, Flail, Spear, etc etc those are just melee examples have ones for range and magic. also when selecting their weapon they will see the speed, damage, and other information for those weapons. streamline the process. make sure enemies are balanced and bosses are aswell. enemies will have weaknesses think octopath traveler so I want to also have a bestiary. when using let's say a flail some enemies are weak to slashing, piercing, blunt, etc

let's improve the Music for Battle and overworld and make it much louder it is very quiet, also add more options to the menu like volumes, default master volume should be set to 80% default. I want fantasy overworld music and a more engaging battle soundtrack


I want to theme the music for different areas, like Tropical Island, Or Dark dungeons and other types of environments that will steer the music direction. I want the main menu to have a fun yet adventurous theme and then the default over world will be like tropical island vibes if that biome is present. I also want to consolidate the action buttons like having a character menu that handles items, equipment, Level Up, Quests Bestiary Story and Achievements as well as more details about the game thus far also as you can see from the image the gamepad controls are not displaying and I want the controls to show on the button like (A) and detect keyboard or controller to update and have a smaller display so that everything fits on screen.


now I want to balance enemies they are too strong for a level 1 player I keep getting killed also you lose nothing on easy death and full health restore. on normal you lose gold upon death like Pokemon and on hard you lose your gear and you have to go pick it up. these difficulties should be explained and shown. I want the character menu to be easily navigated with shoulder buttons on controller like switching tabs 


combat is too difficult the player is too weak let's increase level 1 health to be 50 for the player character. I want the player to be able to survive at least 4-5 enemies at full health on normal. let's re-balance the game so that enemies are scaled to the player. when leveling up it should be an option to auto level and be able to choose other options like turning debug on that will allow for quick testing.

On Level up when choosing Auto it should show on the next screen what stat adjustments were made. and be able to manually allocate if not happy with the results, in game the map and display I want to do away with circle shapes for the map icons they can be a house, or a city, or stairs and chests also have the ability to open the map in full screen with an easy toggle. and when full screen the player can zoom in and out on the map make sure this works with controller too. I want to have even more icons and showcase Inns, Shops, Npc's, Bosses, etc

I want to add the ability to zoom in and out even more. I want to combine the Interact and Talk and other types of interaction just to the A button on controller and if there are npcs with dialogue or shops or such have a  popup menu that you choose what to interact with to simplify things.

I want the default zoom level to be 4 ticks from max zoom in currently. make sure to mirror the action for keyboard which should be F for interact Action.


I want to add skills to the game where the player can craft their own gear so I want to add Botany, Mining, Fishing, and Smithing, Woodworking, Cooking, Leatherworking, Alchemy these independently level up to a max of 100, they offer a way to craft and gather items on the map have trees and places where the players can get hides and fishing spots, let's not add a fishing minigame yet but prepare for a fishing minigame.

I want to shrink the logo in game to be about 1/10 what it currently is in size I want the entire game to fit on screen and in an iframe for itch.io


on the title screen it should be full size (not 1/10 the size, I want the size to be about 3x the current size for the tiny size so that it's readable make sure to set up so that iframes are easily managed) so that the player can always see what they need to see on screen at normal 1920x1080 or smaller screens also make the options accessible in game not just the main menu

I want to add even more weapons to all types Melee, Ranged, Magic think dungeons and dragons level of weapons like everything with a nice mix of Piercing/Slashing/Blunt/Crushing expand each section with more weapons and for ranged and magic come up with good equivalents. I want weapons to be special depending on the weapon type different skills and attacks are available and weaknesses the player to also have the ability to equip mid battle and switch as needed with no turn penalty. make sure to keep the existing options and add to the variety. also I want to add the ability to switch combat style if a respective weapon of that type is changed. think final fantasty xiv where weapons change class this is the same with this system.

Small edit fix the selection for Magic as you can see the gltich

I want to show the skills like Mining, Botany, Fishing, and all of the crafting classes displayed on the main HUB under the log on the right under the chat

I want the skills to be progress bars and show exp 

I want to add Crafting skill and Clothier (or whatever name works best for this game)

I want to show all of the hud more easily and be able to collapse and expand the viewport to match the native resolution and orientation

I want to have a mastery system for weapons and their respective classes. I want to to see weapons gain abilities through usage and mastery of that type progression like leveling but not the type of leveling format think learning based on usage and skills need to unlock various levels of mastery to be able to use them and there is no limit based on mastery

I want to add a timing minigame for gathering all of them where if timing is good yield more based on level. think a simple back and forth bar where you try to get the max efficiency it will change each zone where you need to hit and make it so that if there is 3 resources in a spot then do it in conjunction 3 times and make sure its worth its yield I also want to add sound effects for the gathering and crafting skills I want a relevant sound effect.


I want to be able to use all of my crafting based skills anywhere not just in cities however there needs to be requirements to use the skills like tools that are used to activate the skill for example blacksmith tools which would start a minigame there will be quality so the higher the level the harder it is to craft perfect or likewise you can craft higher level gear than you find and there needs to be a way to desynth or breakdown existing items and weapons and armor etc into crafting materials that can be recycled. this should scale considering 100 is the max level and max level for crafting and gathering skills.

when in the crafting menu each crafting skill should show recipes and such for each and make sure that all of them have 1 - 100 and make sure all of the game is set to scale to 100 total level and max stats I want to add crafting stations in town is fine but the shops and drops need to have some revamp. I need to be able to buy crafting stations that can be used when the item is used. let's re-envision character and inventory to be tab based and show each tab contents not a whole replacement UI. let's make this so that controller can easily control the flow with rb an lb buttons navigating the tabs in the character menu.

I want to add Jewel crafting to cover the bases for accessories

remove the skill "Crafting" this is being replaced with Jewelcrafting and as such those recipes will be in Jewelcrafting


I Want to add save slots (unlimited amounts show x on page on load game) I also want to expand the procedural generation to build endless quests and npc dialogues leverage anything that can make that task easier. I want each playthrough to be different and I want the scaling so that within 4-5 hours of play time with replay ability


weapon Mastery is happening too quickly I want the user to spend around 5x the current amount it takes roughly? also I want to add even more resources to be gathered that are crafting materials needed I would like all materials to be available for all crafting recipes. also all gathering should be Botany, Mining, Fishing, right now we have a hides giving leatherworking we want to change that so that it gives botany experience and correct the spot to make sense with that. I want the player to easily obtain materials needed to craft gear and such. I also want spots on the map that are crafting encounters where there is a different mini-game with a similar processes. I want to mirror final fantasy XIV system a little here. I want progress and quality bars and the abilities are unlocked with each crafting skill unlocks. skills unlocked with other crafting classes are unlocked for all crafting classes. For example some abilities will increase quality or progress, some will take reduced steps or beable to recover I want to closely but not 100% copy the final fantasy xiv crafting classes setup. make it as close we can get


let's add a faster way to test crafting and gathering for testers let's add a whole area where there is no encounters and all the available resources available debug menu will be able to teleport to debug area which will be called DEBUG_CRAFTING for the entire game and make sure that resources have levels needed to gather them for progression. it will say the level on map, also I want tooltip like popups in game when interacting to indicate to interact. 

